okay excellent we don't trust you
very good well I will need that sure
can't attend sit down with him sir the
head of VOA it was mouth of Reader's
Digest Pleasant yes yeah and then our
editor chief thought that might be more
effective just one on one so can and
deferred to me I remember an interview
once I had there at your have you ever
seen their headquarters well it's a kind
of a beautiful country home how spacious
lawns waiting president absolutely
captivated to it Wallace our founder for
about four and a half hours and then you
finally have to leave to go make the
speech but it was a memorable lunch what
we would like to do here sir is to ask
you some questions so that all readers
here and abroad about 100 million of
them can have a better idea of President
Reagan the man and I'd like to start off
by asking what has surprised you the
most pleasantly and unpleasantly about
being inside the government that you've
had for so long observed from the
outside well first of all I guess one
surprise mother pleasant or unpleasant
was at
how little I was surprised because the
eight years as governor California I
realized when I came in here suddenly it
wasn't a great shock as becoming
governor had been but the discovery of
the kind of the routine the scheduling
the all of that and while there was
added the international situation I the
the rest was as I say not too not too
shocking there was however there was a
surprise having to do with being the
commander in chief and things of that
kind
one part of it that shocked me a little
bit was the first time only weeks after
we were here the Jack Kilpatrick invited
us down to a Sunday lunch this house and
the helicopter picked us up here in the
lawn and very shortly we landed there at
his farm and and he told me that they'd
been there for several days installing
the phones and I said what do you mean
installing the phones and that was when
I found out that I can't even go across
town to a lunch or a private dinner
without phones are installed and it was
explained to me well Jack explained that
that as they had explained it to him
that wherever I was I had to have the
ability to communicate anyplace in the
world and in telling him this they told
him that they could reach anyone for me
and he challenged them on that and they
said name someone now jack is telling me
all this and he named a son of his who
was on embassy guard in a country in
Africa and they got him on the phone and
he and his wife got to talk to their son
so they asked him wouldn't anyone else
and he said he had another son who was a
quartermaster on the USS prat a
destroyer out in the 6th fleet the
Mediterranean and when he said well do
you get him and they said no well he
said you said you could get anyone well
they said no the fleet is on maneuvers
and the only one who can get the fleet
when it's on maneuvers is the president
so Jack was telling me all this we've
got there we got in the house I met the
young man's wife a very sweet young lady
hadn't seen her husband for months and I
excused myself went back out and I said
is this right that I could get someone
on the USS prep and the Sixth Fleet and
they said oh yes sir and I said well get
from quartermaster Kilpatrick and I went
back in and got her what she got to talk
to her husband whom she hadn't seen as I
say for all those months and I didn't
realize what I'd done it was a surprise
to find help that was just a few words
for me I have to think a little better
because I got a letter from
quartermaster Kilpatrick and he told me
that I would be surprised what air
traffic was like I hadn't even thought
it through that the last portion of that
call would be by radio and he said that
he'd that the air was an Admiral's
talking to Admirals and ships talking to
ships constantly all of this and then a
voice on the air said White House
calling and another voice said what code
is that and another voice said maybe
it's no code maybe it's the White House
and he said even Hollywood could not
have silenced the air as quickly as it
was silenced then he said they came down
and got a lowly quartermaster on a
destroyer to come to the phone and he
wrote this line which I'll never forget
he said it was as if God had called the
Vatican and asked for an altar boy by
name that's great making making that
call was obviously not the toughest
decision you've had to make what has
been the toughest decision in there four
and a half years well there a lot of the
tough decisions the ones in which
there's so much right on both sides I
make the cabinet go over and over these
things in front of me there and I hear
because when there's differences of
opinion because of the split between
right and wrong
and when I've heard enough fight I make
the decision I've I've always used the
cabinet as I did as governor as a kind
of a board of directors except for one
thing they don't vote I have to make the
decision but I think the hardest ones
will always be those instances where you
have to or you order our young men in
uniform to go someplace where their
lives will be endangered that is without
doubt the most difficult when you became
president you didn't have any foreign
policy experience is your view of the
world changed in the four-and-a-half
years well I have to tell you that the
the premise is a little wrong not that I
had been a diplomat in any way except
that again having been governor of
California while it didn't have a
foreign policy if California when a
nation it would be the seventh ranking
economic power in the world so you had
some interest in and it is I guess the
biggest percentage of of trade in and
out of our country is by way of
California but it wasn't that I had
always had an interest in international
affairs particularly because of the
Soviet Union and when I was president of
the Screen Actors Guild the effort of
the Communists to move in on the motion
picture industry and all I can tell you
is that when I was running for governor
some of the press editorialized that if
I didn't stop talking about
International Affairs
I had never become governor and but I
did have that interest and then as
governor four times the president asked
me to do some missions and errands for
him abroad that took me to 18 different
countries in the world
and some of them several times more than
once and so that has always been an
interest of mine and there wasn't much
that had to be changed in in my opinion
about the good guys and the bad guys and
and what our responsibility was did it
did it bother you that when you came
into office some or maybe even many
European intellectuals or elitists
viewed you as a actor cowboy with
simplistic views about the world scene
and if it did bother you do you think
that view has been altered in during
your term well it didn't really bother
me so much because I had gone through
that same thing being governor there
were some people that thought to go
straight from the acting profession to
governor without having held any other
political offices was as you've
described it
no it didn't bother me so much I do
think there have been a change now that
we become personally acquainted when I
say we I mean heads of state of a number
of our allies the we were all on a very
cordial first-name basis in say the
economic summit and no I don't think
that prevails now when what books and
what thinkers most influenced you before
coming to the White House now that's
that's a tough question because I have
been a voracious reader whether it's a
books nonfiction as well as fiction but
that and articles publications and so
forth I had to try and pick out someone
in particular I just don't think I can
I've I've
opened myself up to just about all the
viewpoints there are in that sense and
as I say I'm my my greatest dread my
nightmare is that sometime I might be
caught in a hotel room someplace with
nothing to read because I don't think I
can go to sleep or shutting my eyes if I
didn't read myself to sleep at night you
mentioned before just in passing and I'd
like to get back to it your role as
president of the Screen Actors Guild
I've read that that period in your life
perhaps more than any other shaped your
attitudes and your policies what did
your experiences as a labor leader teach
you I was very proud at the Screen
Actors Guild at that time when I went
into the job I found that it had it
existed on some very firm principles for
one thing the Screen Actors Guild has
said there the guild will not be engaged
in politics nor will there be politics
in the guild we believe that our members
of every kind of philosophy and
therefore there was no way that by even
a majority vote we had a right to take a
position politically that might be
counter to the views of of our members
we also and for two decades I was in
charge most of the time of our
negotiations of the reinstitution of the
basic contract with the producers and I
discovered I didn't Institute it I
discovered it was already there the
Screen Actors Guild had its own rule
which was
but equalities it could be and we stuck
to those things and I had the pleasure
after some of those years of negotiating
to have the head of one of the studios
who was always very prominent in their
negotiating committee tell me one day
that when the guild was first proposed
the idea of an Actors Guild he was one
who fought the hardest against it but he
said I've come to believe that the
Screen Actors Guild is the most
constructive force for good in the
motion picture industry but could you
describe briefly the fight with the
Communists over control of the Screen
Actors Guild yes and incidentally I was
a New Deal Democrat fresh out of the out
of the war out of uniform we got out and
there had been the afl-cio it had
pledged you know no strikes and yet of
the 43 guilds and unions in the motion
picture business
most of us were AF of l-cio unions and
this strike was a jurisdictional strike
it was called over whether some 350
people in the whole picture industry
should be members of a stagehands Union
or members of the the trade unions we
had that mix and back from the days of a
great strike on Broadway in the theater
days there had been a tradition in the
picture business to reconcile the
differences between state chants what
had happened in the theaters in the old
days was that a stage end did everything
in the theater not just backstage with
the stage so that if a seat needed
fixing out in front he came out like a
carpenter and fixed the seat and this
had led to the jurisdictional strike on
Broadway and the settlement finally was
that everything behind the proscenium
arch belong to the stadiums everything
in front of it belong to the craft
unions plumbers electricians and
carpenters and so forth
in Hollywood they made the proscenium
arch the soundstage door
anything in there with stagehands but
every studio had mills where they made
in sections the sets and you'd see at
the end of the day the sets for the next
day's shooting the wheel down on rollers
down the studio streets huge sections
like the whole wall of this room here
and all of it and into the soundstage in
the sound stage then the stagehands
Union set erectors put these pieces
together that was they were then behind
the percent of March the issue that they
picked for this jurisdictional strike
was that the said erector should be
carpenters now carpenters worked in the
mill and made those sections these
fellows only put them together this led
to the jurisdictional strike the the
then Czar of the of the Carpenters Union
had always had a rivalry with the
stagehands so that was the cause of it
during the war there had come subversion
and infiltration of some of the union's
even some of the AF of l-cio unions they
had formed a rump group called the
Hollywood Conference of studio unions in
and this was in contrast to the AF of
l-cio Labor Council so they were on one
side we on the other now I was not
prepared I wasn't a read Bader as I say
I was a New Deal Democrat and I had
never gone for all of the stories I'd
been told after I got back by some that
there had been this kind of infiltration
into the picture business I wasn't
prepared to believe it I am the one who
made the motion and the board of the
guild was a board member at the time
not president I made the motion that as
long as there was this difficulty in
this that both sides giving a different
reason as to why there was a strike
why didn't we the actors who weren't
involved in any way in that
jurisdictional thing
why didn't we invite management and both
factions to sit down at a table with us
present as a labor union to kind of be
the mediator there and and to protect
against a man even who had nothing to do
with the strike to sit down and find out
because we had to tell our members
whether to go through those picket lines
or not and how do you take sides when a
lot of the unions are in the studios and
a lot of them are out on the street
picketing and the the board bought this
idea and we invited them
there was great reluctance on the part
of the striking unions to join us but
they didn't see any way that they could
say no we met twice a day as it ended up
for almost seven months trying to settle
these things but before long there was
no question about it and I was
completely converted when I found out
that yes this was not a legitimate
strike and I learned it even better when
we made that decision and called a mass
meeting of the screen actors for the
Hollywood Legion fight stadium and and
it was voted that I was going to report
the result of these meetings to the
membership and give them the board's
recommendation that we continue to go
through the ticket lines and honor our
contract with the studios and that was
to be on a Wednesday night and on a
Monday afternoon I was on location in
the picture we were making down at the
beach and I was called to the phone at
an oil station some distance away and
came and got me
drove me down there and I was told on
the phone that if I made that report to
the guild membership there was a squad
that would see that I never worked in
pictures again and so I made the report
to the guild and there were tickets
outside the guild meeting and so forth
and I had a bout in three quarters of a
block walk to the parking lot where my
car was parked afterward
and I felt very comfortable when I found
that got eight of the Teamsters Union
all about the size of pro football
players decided that they just walked to
the car with me and before that by the
time I got back to the studio that day
after that call I've never heard of this
in the law enforcement before but the
Burbank police in which this hysteria
was located him representatives there at
the studio and a special police which
were the guards of the studio were
assigned to my house for 24 hours a day
round-the-clock and they also gave me a
permit and on a revolver under my arm
and a shoulder holster so that was the
beginning and I guess you didn't want
the whole load on this strike but it did
go on for a number of months till
finally there was no giving in at all we
kept the studio's open with the help of
the unions in and the management and as
long as we were in fo the cameras there
wasn't any way they could stop making
pictures and finally it just was a case
of which we said to the people who are
out on strike you get back to the
studios the best way you know how but in
some of those meetings with them the
strike committee because they weren't
all communists I actually sat and heard
studio exec I mean
Union executives of some of the unions
speaking to the their chairman and
saying look we know the Communists have
got control of this strike and we've got
to get it back in our hands
they were legitimately fooled they
didn't realize and that was the history
of it and was in that that I learned
something that kind of set the stage for
me as governor and later on here I
during all those months you know there
couldn't be help would be times in which
I said to myself Who am I to be making
these decisions for thousands of actors
and actresses whose careers are at stake
and I found out that they wouldn't what
I recommended they would do and then I
finally decided the only way I could
sleep at night was to make up my mind
that if I did what I honestly believed
in my heart was right and I may make a
mistake but if I could honestly believe
that that was the right thing to do
that's what we'd do and when I became
governor I told the cabinet that on any
issue that would confront us I did not
want to hear any of the political
ramifications of the issue I only wanted
to hear what was right or wrong for the
people and we'd make the decision on
that basis not in a political basis and
I found I do sleep very well if I can
ask you one more Hollywood question as
an actor you've played many many roles
is there any one role you would like to
have played but never got an opportunity
to oh yeah
I have to tell you though there were
many such once you're in that business
of doing it you you see a picture you
know no boy all of how did and you find
out the things you said that you would
do different and so forth but yes there
was when being under contract to Warner
Brothers in a picture called Santa Fe
Trail in which I played the second lead
I was not a star then to Errol Flynn and
we was an historical picture and he
played Jeff Stewart and I played George
Custer and all the others were there and
we were just graduated in West Point and
into the cavalry and this was really the
story of the capture of John Brown and
played that and I always loved those
I didn't these people that say cowboy
actor good lord
my biggest fight with Warner Brothers
after I was there 13 years was they
wouldn't let me do pictures like that I
was doing the drawing room comedies and
so forth and then they made they died
with their boots on the story of George
Custer will haven't played him once oh
boy I wanted to play that part and I
went to hell Wallace and I begged and so
forth and I said but I've played Custer
want stories and that part's mine now
but Errol Flynn wait George Custer I
didn't get two commentators and some
former presidents have talked of the
loneliness of the presidency and the
burdens of the presidency yet you seem
to approach the job with great relish do
you find it lonely or burdensome how
would you describe it
no I don't I surrounded myself with
people that I have confidence in that I
believe in I I don't think that I sit
here all alone and decide everything by
myself I'd as I say I want to hear
everybody's viewpoint and I don't give
any indication of where I lean while I
hear those viewpoints
and I've had people in our cabinet who
were cabinet officers under other
presidents tell me that they had never
been in cabinet meetings that were as
fruitful before evidently then a lot of
presidents just simply used their
cabinet as kind of a well they'd meet
periodically and different members would
report what their departments were doing
they the word that I've gotten from
these others is that they never found or
were in cabinet meetings where everybody
regardless of whether it affected their
particular agency were involved in the
discussion but no I and maybe again it
was the the eight years experience I
have to believe for many years recently
we've taken our presidents from the
ranks of the legislators I think the
best training the closest job to being
president the United States is being a
governor a legislator is used to being
in a group and on a committee and making
decisions on a voting basis majority
rule only a governor a sat there and
when finally know was that the final say
has got to be his or hers and so maybe
that's I attribute part of this to that
I don't say it's easy a lot of decisions
that after I've heard all of that and as
I say the ones that where there's so
much right on both sides that are very
difficult but no I don't I don't have it
that feeling every day you receive
detailed intelligence briefings on the
entire world what information you've
received most shocked or worried you the
well
of course the the greatest shock was a
telephone calls on a weekend is about
three o'clock in the morning when couple
of us or a few of us were Don Regan and
George Shultz Anaya and her wives
we're down at August a country club I'd
never been there before when going down
for a George Shultz's invitation for a
weekend of golf and it was the word
about the bombing of the Marines in
Lebanon and that there's no way to
describe the horror and the grief whoo
as the word came in about that and in
this other my great concern stems from
that same thing the increased use of
terrorism which we have to believe is
backed by some governments it's so hard
to to fight because unless you could
infiltrate and know in advance what is
being planned there's no way to know
where they're going to strike next
you could retaliate with just outright
revenge if you didn't care how much
terrorism you caused but until you know
where though and who those individuals
are and where they could be reached I've
never believed that we have a right to
just simply go into an area of people
who might be of the same general
background and slaughter some of them in
revenge so it's it's one of the most
frustrating and one of these causing the
greatest concern because you know that
you can't abandon your positions in the
world you can't withdraw ambassadors and
diplomatic staff and so forth are the
terrorists of one and you can't let them
do that but you know that all those
people out there are at risk every
minute I couldn't ask you for your
reactions to two other moments of crises
and crisis in your
administration what was your feeling
when you decided finally to send
American troops to Grenada to Grenada
with all this again you knew that the
final say has got to be his or hers and
so maybe that's I attribute part of this
to that I don't say it's easy a lot of
decisions that after I've heard all of
that and as I say the ones that where
there's so much right on both sides that
are very difficult but no I don't I
don't have it that feeling there every
day you receive detailed intelligence
briefings on the entire world what
information you received most shocked or
worried you the well of course the the
greatest shock was a telephone calls on
a weekend is about three o'clock in the
morning when a couple of us are a few of
us were Don Regan and George Shultz nine
and our wives we're down at August a
country club I'd never been there before
and going down for George Shultz's
invitation for a weekend of golf and it
was the word about the bombing of the
Marines in Lebanon and that
there's no way to describe the horror
and the grief who has the word gaming
about that and in this other my great
concern stems from that same thing the
increased use of terrorism which we have
to believe is backed by some governments
it's so hard to to fight because unless
you could infiltrate and know in advance
what is being planned there's no way to
know where they're going to strike next
you could retaliate with just outright
revenge if you didn't care how much
terrorism you caused but until you know
where the when who those individuals are
and where they could be reached I've
never believed that we have a right to
just simply go into an area of people
who might be of the same general
background and slaughter some of them
and revenge so it's it's one of the most
frustrating and one of these causing the
greatest concern because you know that
you can't abandon your positions in the
world you can't withdraw ambassadors and
diplomatic staff and so forth or are the
terrorists of one and you can't let them
do that but you know that all those
people out there are at risk every
minute I couldn't ask you for your
reactions to two other moments of crisis
and crisis in your administration what
was your feeling when you decided
finally to send American troops to
Grenada the Grenada well this again you
knew that there was going to be a hazard
and there was going to you were
endangering their lives but this again
on that same weekend as the blow up in
they root of all things this also a
walkers before dawn with a phone call
and it seems that these several small
island states those that had been or in
the Commonwealth of the United Kingdom
they had this word of what was going on
in Grenada and they felt that it was of
such importance that action had to be
taken they were all in a Union together
with Grenada but they knew that they
didn't you know some of them don't even
have an army
they knew that they didn't have the
military strength to do it and they made
an outright request to us I didn't feel
that there was any way that we could in
the face of the evidence that they
presented to that we could turn down
that request and ever be trusted or
believed anyplace in the free world so
sitting there and there was before dawn
hours on the phone what George Bush at
this end and the emergency group
assembled we we made the decision that
we were going to do what they'd asked we
were going to join it was an
international thing although we provided
the bulk of the the force when the
Chiefs of Staff were entrusted with
putting the mission too big together I
made only one suggestion I said when you
decide how many you think it'll take
then double it and this one we managed
to keep a complete secret and that it
worked there were some deaths but I've
never been so proud of anything in my
life as I was all those young men in
uniform
in the four branches of the service that
were involved and even more so when
about four hundred see what our stake
was I left this out I shouldn't have
left this out this was a great
consideration of ours we had 800 young
medical students Americans on that
island and the thought of another
hostage situation with 800 young
Americans there was no way that we could
tolerate that and so that was the big
deciding factor in addition to the other
thing that I I said then when I but 400
them came here to say thanks to the
South Lawn and we had about 40 of the
returned servicemen by that time back
from the fourth about ten each from the
four services and to see these young
people and they were all young people
the people in uniform of the medical
students those medical students couldn't
keep their hands on them and they'd come
back to me and they'd say I never really
thought much about the people in uniform
before I wasn't in other words they were
kind of that rebellious type but not
anymore
they said they saved our lives and I
heard a story of some who in their
dormitory had been under the beds for 24
hours the bullets coming through the
building and then they said from
downstairs they heard a voice and it was
an American sergeant arranger and
identified himself and called out for
them to come down and they told these
were the students telling me they said
he was there and the Marines are the
Rangers to take them to the helicopters
and they told us that when they went to
the helicopters those young men in
uniform put themselves between the
students and where any fire would come
from from the hills from the opposition
and literally shielded them with their
own bodies and getting them to the
helicopters and there
so I had a great pride when it was over
but it did it made you it made me
realize what other presidents who have
had to ask for a declaration of war is
over with what what it meant one other
reaction question what was your reaction
when you heard about KL flight
double-oh-seven being shot down and how
did you hear about it I'm trying to
think now where I was you know I can't
remember exactly where I was but the and
as you'll remember there was some you
know it had disappeared from the radar
screen so there was still some question
before final verification of what had
actually happened to it and that it was
going on the people were dead and then
of course it was shocked even though I
mean I thought that it was it verified
what I believed about the lack of
respect for human life that is felt by
those in charge of the Soviet Union and
it was following that that I
made a statement about an evil empire I
wanted to ask you you did call the
Soviet Union the evil empire you've seen
the Soviets shoot down 0:07 and murder
an American major at other times you
suggested that you and mr. Gorbachev
couldn't work together to achieve peace
are those contradictory positions no not
at all
I thought the beginning of this
administration when questions were asked
at me and press conferences and so forth
about Soviet Union I spoke bluntly about
what I felt that I knew about them and
the fact that they are expansionist they
are aggressive they they they have never
withdrawn or retracted the Lenin
statement that their mission is a
one-world come in a state but at the
same time we have to live in the world
together and I have to I believe that
the only way there will be World War
three is if the Soviet Union wants a war
if they want peace there will be peace
because no one else wants a war we
certainly don't and never known of a war
in my lifetime that we started and so I
think that it is it is necessary that we
face each other we know they don't like
our system or us and we don't like their
system but we have to see if we can't
get a word along in the world and as I
say they're the only ones that can cause
a war do you expect to be meeting with
mr. Gorbachev well I'm hopeful that that
will come about we've had expressions
that yes they're willing the balls in
their court we've invited them as our
turn to to invite and we're ready when
they are but it's it's necessary for
them to know that we don't have any
illusions
but at the same time we're willing to
exist in the world with them and it's
time that we sat down and found out
where the parameters are you noted the
other day that the Soviets have spent
five hundred million dollars to prop up
Marxist regime in Nicaragua but the
houses refused to commit even fourteen
million dollars to help freedom fighters
why have you not been able to convince
the people that the cause of the Contras
and 80 in the Contras is the right cause
I think part of it is the sophisticated
disinformation campaign apparatus that
the communist bloc has worldwide to
where they've been able to confuse a
great many of our people even the terms
we use and I wish we hadn't I wish we'd
started doing something I'm going to do
from here on if we had referred not to
the Sandinistas but to the Communists
not to the Contras but as to the freedom
fighters that these are these are
Nicaraguans fighting for freedom in
their own country against a communist
takeover when you say those terms
polls have revealed that a lot of our
people out there you know most people
are not fully aware of the countries in
Central America who they are what they
are and so forth and the hearing these
terms sandanista government to Contras
and so forth most people aren't quite
sure which side we're on or what what's
at stake and after Vietnam there is a
holdover of the Vietnam syndrome there
is a feeling what does this the United
States sticking its nose in something
none of our business yet when you ask
them in polls questions about do you
want another Cuba on the mainland of the
Americas here a communist then the
people will say no they don't want that
so I think part of is the disinformation
and we haven't been able to overcome it
but also our lack of outright
explanation to them we found after I
made that one speech on Nicaragua
on the air there was a great turnaround
but that was one speech the
disinformation kept on and on and just
like advertising constantly it it wore
it away and it gradually it went back
again to the people thinking oh maybe
we're doing the wrong thing in Nicaragua
what's the significance of apartment
well okay I'll make them good and mr.
president if we could do what we did
when we interview interviewed you in in
81 is there's still some more questions
if I can leave them with Pat and if he
can get to you in the next couple of
days - yeah if I do those that would be
be very happy to do fine is being a
reader of Reader's Digest well thank you
your first accomplishment in 1981 was to
push through a huge tax cut now you're
fighting for revamping of the entire tax
code when did you first start thinking
about what you call the disgraceful
inequities of the tax system well I've
always believed in those are always well
for a lot of years I think it has gotten
so out of line so complicated I thought
I've thought that most of our people
there are many of our peoples discussed
what the tax system wasn't based on the
size of the tax but on the complication
the confusion of it and in 81 we had we
were faced with the emergency we felt of
the recession then and what had to be
done
so we couldn't think reform but if you
remember in talking about our first tax
program many times we said this is only
the first stage this isn't the end we
want to come back and what we wanted to
come back with was a reform that could
make it more fair more simple and so
that's been in our minds from the very
beginning okay one last question and
then I will leave
extra questions with with Pat it's been
four years since you were shot how is
that attempt on your life changed your
life the way you look at things I don't
know whether it's changed my life or not
I always was a pretty good boy about
minding the security people when they
told me and not to go there and not to
go there it has changed their life
physically in a number of ways
well now that coupled with the whole
terrorist thing wasn't just that with a
whole terrorist thing there are things
that I can't do anymore and I recognize
it for example we can't go to church and
I miss that but I recognize it's not
just me I know I am a threat to other
people if I go to some place like that
with the various terrorist practices car
bombs and everything else I could be
responsible for the lives of a lot of
other people so I'm reconciled to that
the whole thing of that shooting though
you know I went all the way to the
hospital and walked into the emergency
room on my own not knowing I'd been shot
I was shot in midair when the Secret
Service behind me I thought it was
firecrackers and I had just finished
saying what the was that when I was
grabbed and thrown into the limousine
the door was open and as it turns out
that's I was shot on the way in the
bullet careened off the side of the car
came through the gap between the door
that hinge gap between the door on the
side of the car and the reason is they
showed me the bullet after they got it
out and it was flattened out and covered
with black paint from the car but I
thought because then he did what his
Secret Service practice he dived in the
car on top of me to shield me and it was
then for the first time that I felt pain
I always assumed after all those movies
where if he were shot you grabbed
yourself and look
agonized and fell down I always thought
that you felt it when it hits you it
didn't it was after he landed on me so I
thought he'd done it and I thought what
had happened the only thing I could
reconcile with a paralyzing pain was
they must have broken my ribs and I told
him get off I thank you and he did very
quickly we got up by that time the door
was closed and we were moving and he
said sit back and I said I can't it
hurts too much by this time I had sat up
and suddenly I coughed and I had a
handful of blood well as he and I still
said I must have broken and they
punctured my lung and by this time he
was saying George Washington Hospital
and I used up my handkerchief and then I
used up his that continued coughing I
heard a little scared because it seemed
to me I was having that I was getting
less air every time I breathed in but it
wasn't till they peeled me because there
was no great flow of blood or anything
in the outside and then it was explained
because when they found it back here it
was just a narrow slit that flattened
bullet had gone in edgewise and it hit
her rib and then it tumbled down through
the lung and stopped just short of the
heart but that it
after worden with the time of recovery
also I I feel self-conscious saying this
I well I had a feeling that whatever was
left in time to me belong to somebody
else
Thank You mr. president thank you very
much
thank you sir very good to see you again
thank you we should get you a pizza now
sir I'm gonna walk bill won't you wait a
second I'll go ahead and start off
downstairs